---
layout: post
title: Thoughts on IE9 and Teleportation
categories:
  - web-browsers
  - rendering-engines
  - internet-explorer
  - microsoft
  - safari
  - mobile-safari
  - iphone
  - teleportation

date: 23-09-2010
name: blog
---
Imagine a universe growing instantly and its environment includes necessary resources and basic
production devices for its folk who live peacefully without borders, governments and militaries.
Because of that, everything is free and the entire production units are under control for throughout
of the humanity, which means more production. Additionally, the imagination-universe provides
teleportation that makes easier&faster to distribute/buy products. Sounds so cool, right? I’m
talking about the Web, we invented a some kind of a universe which includes a teleportation network
by default! Everyone has access to free production tools (thanks to [the FSF
movement](http://fsf.org)) and can distribute them to the entire world, for almost free. The only
problem that we couldn't solve is that we have to design our products for old teleportation clients
since most of the people are not aware of modern teleportation tools because they preferred to live
in private property of a genius Richie Rich.

Even I’m pretty happy to see [the great technical
effort](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Explorer_9#Improvements_on_previous_versions) on the
future of Microsoft Internet Explorer, it’s a disappointment to see that there is still nothing
changed about the business approach of Microsoft that seems to believe that they can act like an oil
company, pose and control all of the production devices. This is why I’m still not excited about
Internet Explorer 9. This may sound like if I’m a fan of an any other web browser embracing more
social business models (BTW My browser choice is [UZBL](http://uzbl.org)) but I’m actually pretty ok
with technical approach of Microsoft. I’m following [IEBlog](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/ie) for years
and learning lots of things from the posts about their development experiences, also think that
[MSDN](http://msdn.com) (Compare it with Apple's mysterious reference pages) is one of the great
resources for web developers. The only thing to which I contradict is business models of Microsoft
products.

On the other hand, Internet Explorer isn’t the only proprietary browser which belongs to a
commercial company, we have Safari and several mobile web browsers, too. The only difference between
the IPhones mobile browser and Internet Explorer 6 is that IPhone ones rendering engine is a little
better, not much. Distribution methods -even though Webkit is open source, it's not perfect)- are
almost same, except the companies are different. Most of the mobile browsers are IE6 candidates to
me.

To summarize, the main issue about the web is whether to take the advantage of modern distribution
methods or not. Even if all of the web browsers follow the web standards, we will continue to lose
time for the software coming from back since implementation times differ between months and years.
In my opinion, all of the rendering/javascript engines should be open source, able to update itself
automatically and totally independent from browsers. This is what the web needs immediately.

**Many thanks to** [Yusuf Arslan](http://yusufarslan.net) for reading draft versions of this.

vim: tw=100
